                 Faculty of Science and Engineering

            Teaching and Examination Regulations 2024-2025

                     Bachelor’s degree programmes in:

   1.    Applied Mathematics
   2.    Applied Physics
   3.    Artificial Intelligence
   4.    Astronomy
   5.    Biology
   6.    Biomedical Engineering
   7.    Chemical Engineering
   8.    Chemistry
   9.    Computing Science
   10.   Industrial Engineering and Management Science
   11.   Life Science and Technology
   12.   Mathematics
   13.   Pharmacy
   14.   Physics

These Regulations were decreed by the Board of the Faculty of Science and
Engineering on 16 April 2024, with approval from the Faculty Council and the
Programme Committees for the sections requiring this by law dated 20 March
2024.

The Teaching and Examination Regulations (TER, in Dutch: OER: Onderwijs-
en Examenregeling) set out the specific rights and obligations that apply to each
degree programme taught at the Faculty of Science and Engineering, for both
students and the degree programmes. Please note the TER is updated every
year. The TER for this academic year is applicable to all students registered in
one of the programmes mentioned above, regardless of the starting date of
students. If there are significant changes in the TER that might have a negative
effect on students who are already registered in the programme transitional
provisions are in place.

The University-wide section of the Student Charter sets out the rights and
obligations that apply to all students.




                                                                                1
Contents

1.    General provisions

2.    Qualifications and admission

3.    Content and structure of the degree programme

4.    The first year of the degree programme

5.    Binding study advice

6.    Admission to the second and third years of the degree programme

7.    The second and third years of the degree programme

8.    Other programmes

9.    Examinations of the degree programme

10. Final assessment   of the degree programme

11.   Study progress supervision

12.   Transitional and final provisions




                                                                    2
Section 1 General provisions


    Article 1.1 Applicability

    1. These Regulations for the academic year 2024-2025 apply to the teaching
       and examinations of the Bachelor’s degree programmes in Applied
       Mathematics, Applied Physics, Artificial Intelligence, Astronomy, Biology,
       Biomedical Engineering, Chemistry, Chemical Engineering, Computing
       Science, Industrial Engineering and Management Science, Life Science and
       Technology, Mathematics, Pharmacy and Physics hereinafter referred to as
       the degree programme(s), and to all students enrolled in this degree
       programme.

    2. The degree programmes are provided by the Faculty of Science and
       Engineering (FSE) of the University of Groningen (UG), hereinafter referred
       to as ‘the Faculty’.

    3. These Regulations also apply to the students of other faculties or institutes of
       higher education, insofar as they follow course units organised by one of the
       degree programmes (including Minors) to which these Regulations apply.

    4. Course units or Minors that students follow which are organised by other
       degree programmes, other faculties, or other institutes of higher education,
       are subject to the Teaching and Examination Regulations of that
       programme, faculty or institute.

    5. These Regulations also apply to students enrolled in the degree programme
       for the purpose of following a pre-master's programme as referred to in
       Article 8.8.


    Article 1.2 Definitions

    The following definitions apply to these Regulations:
    a. Academic integrity: information about academic integrity and the associated
       procedures can be found on the University of Groningen website:
       https://www.rug.nl/aboutug/organization/rules-and-
       regulations/general/gedragscodes-
       nederlandseuniversiteiten/wetenschappelijke-integriteit;
    b. Academic year: the period of time that starts on 1 September and ends on 31
       August of the following year;
    c. Act: the Higher Education and Research Act (in Dutch WHW: Wet op het
       Hoger onderwijs en Wetenschappelijk onderzoek);

                                                                                       3
d. Board of Admissions Bachelor’s programmes FSE: the board that has
   decision-making powers in matters concerning admission to the degree
   programme on behalf of the Faculty Board;
e. Binding (negative) study advice: a negative definitive study advice that is
   binding for the student in question and means the student may not continue
   with the degree programme, in accordance with Article 7.8b.3 of the Act;
f. Board of Examiners: an independent body charged with the duties and
   powers as stated in Articles 7.11, 7.12, 7.12b and 7.12c of the Act, including
   assessing whether the requirements of the final assessment have been met;
g. Course unit: a teaching unit of the degree programme within the meaning of
   Article 7.3 of the Act, included in OCASYS;
h. Definitive study advice: a study advice that is issued only once at the end of
   the first year and which may result in rejection of the student in question, in
   accordance with Article 7.8b.1 and 7.8b.2 of the Act;
i. Degree programme: the Bachelor’s degree programme referred to in Article
   1.1 of these Regulations, comprising a coherent set of course units;
j. ECTS (European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System) credit point: a
   credit point within the meaning of Article 7.4 of the Act. The student
   workload of each course unit is expressed in ECTS credit points, whereby 1
   ECTS is equivalent to a student workload of 28 hours;
k. Examiner: a person appointed by the Board of Examiners to set
   examinations and determine their results;
l. Extraordinary circumstances: circumstances such as those referred to in
   Article 7.51 of the Act, and which will be taken into account when
   formulating a decision within the meaning of Article 5.4 and 9.8. Within
   the University of Groningen, the implementation of Article 7.51 of the Act
   is stipulated in the University of Groningen’s Graduation Fund
   Regulations. In these Regulations, extraordinary circumstances include,
   in any case, a disability of chronic illness, illness, pregnancy and delivery,
   extraordinary family circumstances, a degree programme which is not
   feasible, students with an elite sports status (issued by the elite sports
   coordinator), students with a ‘student entrepreneurship status’ (issued
   by the UGCE), membership of a consultative participation body;
m. Final assessment: the final assessment for the Bachelor’s degree which is
   considered to be passed once all the requirements of the entire Bachelor’s
   degree programme have been satisfied;
n. First year of the degree programme: the first period in the degree
   programme, with a student workload of 60 ECTS;
o. Major: the entirety of compulsory course units in the first, second and
   third years of the degree programme;
p. Matching: the procedure regarding activities and issuing programme
   recommendations, in accordance with Article 7.31a ff. of the Act, further
   elaborated in Chapter 3 of the University of Groningen Regulations for
   Registration and Tuition Fees;
q. Minor component: the space available for students to specialize within the
   degree programme;

                                                                                 4
r.    Minor package: a coherent set of course units that can be followed within
      the Minor component;
s.    OCASYS: the University of Groningen’s online course catalogue
t.    Open University: a government-funded university in accordance with
      Article 1.8 of the Act that develops and offers distance learning at university
      level;
u.    Personal Minor: a coherent set of broadening and deepening course units,
      approved by the Board of Examiners, that students can choose themselves
      and follow either at their own Faculty or at another Faculty;
v.    Practical: a practical exercise, as referred to in Article 7.13 of the Act, in one
      of the following forms:
                 i a thesis
                 ii a written assignment, paper or draft
                 iii a research project
                 iv active participation in fieldwork or an excursion
                 v completion of a placement
                 vi active participation in another educational activity designed to
                     teach certain skills;
v.    Preliminary study advice: preliminary study advice based on an overview of
      study results, issued to students halfway through the first year of the degree
      programme;
w.    Pre-Masters’s programme: a bridging programme (with a maximum of 60
      ECTS) that enables students to be admitted to a Master’s degree
      programme;
x.    Programme Committee: the consultative and advisory body that fulfils
      the duties referred to in Article 9.18 of the Act;
y.    second and third years of the degree programme: the part of the Bachelor’s
      degree programme that follows the first year of the degree programme (120
      ECTS);
z.    Semester: part of the academic year, either starting on 1 September and
      ending on a date to be determined by the Board of the University on or
      around 31 January, or starting on the aforementioned date, determined by
      the Board of the University, and ending on 31 August;
aa.   SSE: the School of Science and Engineering;
bb.   Student: a person registered at the University of Groningen for the purpose
      of taking course units and/or examinations leading to the conferral of a
      university degree;
cc.   Study progress overview: a written overview of study results accompanied
      by a preliminary study advice, which is issued to students per email halfway
      through the academic year;
dd.   Test or examination: a test of the knowledge, understanding and skills of
      students, including an assessment of the results;
ee.   UGCE: University of Groningen Centre of Entrepreneurship
ff.   University Minor package: a coherent set of broadening course units or
      deepening course units that students can follow either at their own Faculty


                                                                                       5
    or a different Faculty, which is in principle accessible to students from all
    Bachelor’s degree programmes at the University of Groningen;
gg. VWO diploma: the diploma awarded upon completion of Dutch pre-
    university education, in accordance with Article 2.58(2)(a) or Article
    2.80(2)(a) of the Secondary Education Act 2020.

All other definitions shall have the meaning that the Act ascribes to them.




                                                                                    6
Section 2 Qualifications and admission


    Article 2.1 Admission to the degree programme with profile requirement

    1. The following requirements apply to the holders of a VWO diploma, as defined
      in Article 7.28.3 of the Act:

      BSc Degree                Natuur &   Natuur &     Economie &        Cultuur &
      Programme                 Techniek   Gezondheid   Maatschappij      Maatschappij

      Artificial Intelligence   v          v            v                 math (A) or math
                                                                          (B)

      Astronomy and             v          math (B) +   math (B) + phys   math (B) + phys
      (Applied) Physics                    phys

      Biology                   bio        phys         x                 x

      Biomedical                v          math (B) +   math (B) + phys   math (B) + phys (+
      Engineering                          phys         (+ chem)          chem)

      Chemical                  v          math (B) +   math (B) + phys   math (B) + phys +
      Engineering,                         phys         + chem            chem
      Chemistry and
      Life Science &
      Technology


      Computing Science,        v          math (B)     math (B)          math (B)
      Industrial
      Engineering &
      Management and
      (Applied)
      Mathematics

      Pharmacy                  v          phys         phys + chem       math (A) or math
                                                                          (B)+ phys + chem

      math (A) = Mathematics A; math (B) = Mathematics B; phys = Physics; chem = Chemistry; bio
      = Biology
      v = admissible without additional requirements
      x = not admissible

    2. Holders of:
         a pre-university education diploma that does not include the required
           subject profile;
         another certificate listed in the Act that grants admission to the degree
           programme;




                                                                                               7
     will be admitted to the degree programme on condition that the
     requirements set out in Article 2.1.3 are satisfied.

3. Holders of one of the certificates listed in Article 2.1.2 may only register for
   the degree programme after having demonstrated sufficient knowledge, at
   pre-university education final examination level, of the following course units
   in the required pre-university education profile:

     Bachelor’s degree programme          Subjects at VWO (pre-university) level

     B Applied Mathematics                math (B)

     B Applied Physics                    math (B) + phys

     B Artificial Intelligence            math (A) or math (B)

     B Astronomy                          math (B) + phys

     B Biology                            math (A) or math (B) + na+sk+bio

     B Biomedical Engineering             math (B) + phys

     B Chemical Engineering               math (B) + phys + chem

     B Chemistry                          math (B)+ phys + chem

     B Computing Science                  math (B)

     B Industrial Engineering and         math (B)
     Management Science

     B Life Science and Technology        math (B)+ phys + chem

     B Mathematics                        math (B)

     B Pharmacy                           math (A) or math (B)+ phys + chem

     B Physics                            math (B)+ phys
   math (A)= Mathematics A; math (B) = Mathematics B; phys = Physics; chem = Chemistry;
   bio = Biology

     4. In extraordinary cases, the Board of Admissions may ask a university
        lecturer in the relevant course unit to arrange one or more tests to
        determine the student's knowledge as referred to in Article 2.1.3.

     5. The Board of Admissions of the FSE Bachelor’s programmes will
        determine whether the deficiencies have been compensated
        satisfactorily.



                                                                                          8
Article 2.2 Admission to the programme with deficiencies and
admission based on a University of Applied Sciences (HBO),
University or Open University propaedeutic certificate

The following applies to students with Dutch qualifications:

1. Deficiencies in the qualifications in a VWO diploma may be compensated by
   passing the relevant examinations at the level of the VWO final examination.
   The relevant subjects and examinations are listed in Article 2.1.1.

2. Holders of a propaedeutic certificate from a University of Applied Science
   Bachelor’s programme or an (Open) University Bachelor’s programme will
   be granted admission to the degree programme after having demonstrated
   proficiency in English and sufficient knowledge at VWO final examination
   level in accordance with the entry requirements for VWO graduates. The
   relevant subjects and examinations are:
    Bachelor’s degree programme          Subjects at VWO (pre-university) level

    B Applied Mathematics                math (B)

    B Applied Physics                    math (B)+ phys

    B Artificial Intelligence            math (A) or math (B)

    B Astronomy                          math (B)+ phys

    B Biology                            math (A) or math (B)+ phys + chem +bio

    B Biomedical Engineering             math (B)+ phys

    B Chemical Engineering               math (B)+ phys + chem

    B Chemistry                          math (B)+ phys + chem

    B Computing Science                  math (B)

    B Industrial Engineering and         math (B)
    Management Science

    B Life Science and Technology        math (B)+ phys + chem

    B Mathematics                        math (B)

    B Pharmacy                           math (A) or math (B) + phys + chem

    B Physics                            math (B)+ phys
   math (A) = Mathematics A; math (B) = Mathematics B; phys = Physics; chem = Chemistry;
   bio = Biology



                                                                                           9
3. The Board of Admissions of the FSE Bachelor’s programmes will determine
   whether the deficiencies have been compensated satisfactorily.

4. In extraordinary cases, the Board of Admissions may ask a university
   lecturer in the relevant course unit to arrange one or more tests to determine
   the student's knowledge as referred to in Article 2.1.3.


Article 2.3 Language requirement for foreign certificates

1. Students who have been admitted to a degree programme on the basis of a
   foreign certificate or degree may be required by the Board of Admissions –
   before registration – to pass an English language test, to be administered by
   an agency stipulated by the Faculty Board.

2. The English language proficiency requirement can be met by passing an
   examination in English with the following minimum scores:

   Score ->          Overall     Reading     Listening    Speaking        Writing

   Test

   IELTS             6.5         6.5         6.5          6.5             6.5
   (Academic)

   TOEFL IBT         90          21          21           21              24
   (internet-
   based)

   Cambridge         CAE or CPE Certificate with a minimum score of 180
   English


3. Students are exempted from proving their proficiency in English if they:
    a have completed/will complete secondary education or a Bachelor’s
       programme in one of the following countries: USA, UK, Ireland, New
       Zealand, Australia, Canada (English speaking provinces/territories),
       Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Grenada,
       Guyana, Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, St Kitts and Nevis, St Lucia and
       St Vincent and the Grenadines;
    b apply on the basis of at least 3 (to be obtained) academic GCE A-level
       certificates with grades A* to C from one of the British examination
       boards;
    c apply on the basis of a (to be obtained) International Baccalaureate
       diploma, with English as the medium of instruction;




                                                                                    10
      d   apply on the basis of a (to be obtained) European Baccalaureate diploma
          from a European School or one of the Accredited European Schools and
          have (completed) English as an L1 or L2 subject;
      e apply on the basis of (to be obtained) at least 60 ECTS from an English-
          taught Bachelor’s degree programme in the Netherlands;
      f apply on the basis of a (to be obtained) French Option Internationale du
          Baccalauréat – British version;
      g apply on the basis of a (to be obtained) South African National Senior
          Certificate in combination with an IEB Advanced Programme Certificate
          in English (with minimum result 55% in case this is the only IEB AP
          certificate; otherwise with a passing grade);
      h apply on the basis of a (to be obtained) Singapore/Cambridge GCE A
          levels in at least 3 H2 and 1 H1 content* courses (of which at least 1
          course in a contrasting discipline) together with either the course
          General Paper or Knowledge and Inquiry (5 courses in total);
     * H1 Mother-Tongue Language (MTL) subject cannot be considered in-lieu
     of a H1 content-based subject.


Article 2.4 Equivalent qualifications

1.   Holders of a certificate of a foreign secondary education institute that has
     not been designated by ministerial regulation as equivalent to the
     qualification requirements listed in Article 7.24 of the Act may be granted
     exemption from the qualification requirements.

2.   Equivalence will be revealed after an assessment by the Board of
     Admissions.


Article 2.5 Entrance examination (colloquium doctum)

1.   Students who do not meet the qualification requirement as referred to in
     Articles 2.1 and 2.2 may participate in an entrance examination (colloquium
     doctum), in accordance with Article 7.29 of the Act.

2.   a. Students who wish to take the entrance examination must be aged 21 or
     over on the date on which the examination is held.
     b. An exception to the age requirement may be made if the student in
     question has gained a certificate abroad or if the student has the status of
     refugee and for this reason is unable to present a degree certificate.




                                                                                    11
3.   The entrance examination concerns the relevant subjects and examinations
     as listed below and will be assessed by the Board of Admissions Bachelor’s
     programmes FSE. The provisions of Article 2.3 apply.
            Degree Programme                          Subjects at VWO (pre university)
                                                      level
            B Applied Physics                         eng, math (B), chem, phys
            B Applied Mathematics                     eng, math (B), chem, phys
            B Artificial Intelligence                 eng, math (A or B)
            B Astronomy                               eng, math (B), chem, phys
            B Biology                                 eng, math (A or B), chem, phys, bio
            B Biomedical Engineering                  eng, math (B), phys
            B Chemical Engineering                    eng, math (B), chem, phys
            B Chemistry                               eng, math (B), chem, phys
            B Computing Science                       eng, math (B), chem, phys
            B Industrial Engineering and              eng, math (B), chem, phys
            Management Science
            B Life Science and Technology             eng, math (B), chem, phys
            B Mathematics                             eng, math (B), chem, phys
            B Pharmacy                                eng, math (A or B), chem, phys
            B Physics                                 eng, math (B), chem, phys

     eng = English; math (A) = Mathematics A; math (B) = Mathematics B; phys = Physics;
     chem = Chemistry; bio = Biology

4.   A successfully completed entrance examination will grant admission to the
     University of Groningen degree programme for which it was taken for the
     duration of two academic years after the date on which the examination was
     taken.


Article 2.6 Preparatory year

1. Higher educated foreigners who do not satisfy the entry requirements set out
     in the articles 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3 may participate in the Preparatory Year for
     higher educated foreigners, offered by the Alfa-College for Hanze University
     of Applied Sciences and University of Groningen.

2. A successfully completed entrance examination of the Preparatory Year will
     grant admission to the University of Groningen degree programme for which
     it was taken for the duration of two academic years after the date on which
     the examination was taken.




                                                                                          12
Article 2.7 Board of Admissions Bachelor’s degree programmes FSE

1. The Board of Admissions Bachelor’s degree programmes FSE has the power
     to decide on behalf of the Faculty Board in matters concerning admission to
     the degree programme, within the framework of the Teaching and
     Examination Regulations.

2. The Faculty Board is responsible for appointing members of the Board of
     Admissions Bachelor’s programmes FSE and will set out the entry
     requirements.


Article 2.8 Intake date and application dates

1. There is one intake date per academic year, namely 1 September of each year.

2. The provisions of this Article also apply to students who reregister for the
     same degree programme.


Article 2.9 Matching

1.   Prior to the first registration for the degree programme, prospective students
     are required to participate in the matching activities offered by the
     programme. Following their participation in matching, prospective students
     will receive a programme recommendation.

2.   The provisions in Chapter 3 of the University of Groningen Regulations for
     Registration and Tuition Fees (RIC) and the Faculty matching procedure
     apply.

3.   Starting the first year of the Bachelor’s degree programme after 1 September
     is not possible.

4.   Students who switch to a different degree programme within the same BSA
     cluster are exempt from participation in matching activities.


Article 2.10 Selection (numerus fixus)

1.   Quotas (numerus fixus) apply to the following Bachelor’s degree
     programmes in accordance with Article 7.53 or Article 7.56 of the Act:
       a. Artificial Intelligence (175 places)
       b. Biomedical Engineering (125 places)

                                                                                  13
       c. Computing Science (200 places)

2.   Prior to the first enrolment in the degree programme, candidates for these
     degree programmes shall take part in the selection procedure. Only if the
     candidate is offered a study place on the basis of the result of the selection
     procedure and the prospective student accepts it within the stipulated
     period, can the candidate be enrolled in the degree programme.

3. The provisions of Chapter 3 of the RUG Regulations for Registration and
   Tuition Fees and the faculty selection procedure apply.


Article 2.11 Switch in the first year

Students who would like to switch within the first year of their studies need to
make an appointment with the academic advisor. The Board of Admissions
decides on a request for admission during the academic year, based on the
advice of the academic advisor and taking into account the following aspects:
a.    Admissibility
b.    (re)matching
c.    BSA-progress and BSA-clustering (art. 5.7)
d.    Registration date
e.    Selectivity of the programme




                                                                                      14
Section 3 Content and structure of the degree programme


    Article 3.1 Aims and learning outcomes of the degree programme

    1. The degree programme is designed to:
           a. impart knowledge, skills and understanding in the field of the degree
              programme, and to enable the learning outcomes of the programme
              listed in Appendix I to be attained;

           b. promote academic development. This is defined as the development
              of competences (knowledge, skills and attitudes) concerning:
              - independent academic thought and action
              - scientific communication
              - the use of the relevant academic instruments
              - the use of specific knowledge of a field in a wider academic,
                  philosophical and social/cultural context
              - behavioural norms that apply during the degree programme and
                  in the academic world
              - a professional approach to work or profession while fulfilling the
                  relevant (disciplinary) standards of responsible research;
           c. prepare students for a further study career. Students become familiar
              with the theory and practice of academia from the very start of their
              Bachelor’s degree programme.

    2. The learning outcomes of the various course units are stated in OCASYS.


    Article 3.2 – Conducting research

    1. Students who conduct research in the context of the degree programme do so
       in accordance with relevant legislation, the Dutch code of conduct for
       academic integrity, and the requirements of ethically sound research.

    2. Throughout the entire research process, the student will adhere to the
       applicable policies and procedures, which fall under the data management
       policy of the Research Institute where the research project takes place.

    3. Prior to the period of research, the student, together with their supervisor,
       can draw up a data management plan. This is then stored, in accordance with
       the faculty’s data policy. At a minimum, this plan will address:
         the student’s responsibilities concerning the processing of personal data
         the data storage measures (including security measures) used in the
           course of the research

                                                                                  15
       the archiving and retention period
       the responsibility for reusing data after the research has been completed.

4. In general, the student holds the copyright on any theses or other
   independently written assignments that are intended to test their knowledge,
   understanding, and skills. If anyone else wishes to use the student’s thesis or
   written work, the student must first give permission for them to do so. The
   University must be free to perform these procedures unconditionally if it is to
   archive theses and written assignments (whether or not these are under
   embargo) and to process them in accordance with the rules of the Dutch
   Inspectorate of Education and the Act. All students are obliged to give their
   unconditional consent to the aforementioned procedures.


Article 3.3 Type of degree programme

The degree programme is full time.


Article 3.4 Language of instruction

The Bachelor’s degree programmes of the Faculty of Science and Engineering
are taught in English.


Article 3.5 Student workload

1. The degree programme has a student workload of 180 ECTS credit points.

2. The first year of the degree programme has a student workload of 60 ECTS
    credit points.

3. The student workload is expressed in whole ECTS credit points.


Article 3.6 Contact hours

1. The first year of the degree programme comprises a minimum of 480 contact
    hours a year.

2. The second and third years of the degree programme comprises a minimum
    of contact hours a year, as listed in Appendix V.

3. Details of the contact hours are registered in OCASYS.


                                                                                16
Article 3.7 Organization and assessments of the degree programme

1. The Bachelor’s degree programme is concluded with a final assessment.

2. The degree programme is divided into the first year of the degree
   programme, and the second and third years of the degree programme.

3. The entire degree programme comprises a Major (150 ECTS) and a Minor (1
   x 30 ECTS or 2 x 15 ECTS), unless stated otherwise in art. 7.1.2.

4. A list of Majors and available Minors can be found in Appendix II to these
   Regulations.


Article 3.8 Participation in FSE course units

1. Participation in a course unit may only take place after proper and timely
   registration. All information about the enrolment procedure for FSE course
   units can be found on the Student Portal:
   https://student.portal.rug.nl/infonet/studenten/fse/faculty-spcontent/snel-
   naar/vakintekening-procedure

2. The maximum number of students for each course unit is listed in OCASYS.

3. Admission to course units with limited capacity is arranged according to
   predefined and published admission criteria and priority regulations.
   Students who are registered for the degree programme will be given priority
   for the compulsory course units in their Major.

4. Students who are registered for the Bachelor’s degree programme cannot
   access the course units of a Master’s degree programme.




                                                                                17
Section 4 The first year of the degree programme


    Article 4.1 Content of the propaedeutic phase the first year of the degree
    programme

    1. A list of course units in the first year of the degree programme can be found
       in Appendix III to these Regulations.

    2. Any deviations from the set of first year course units referred to in Article
       4.1.1. must be presented to the Board of Examiners for approval.

    3. All course units and their modes of instruction are listed in the University’s
       digital course catalogue: OCASYS.

    4. In situations of force majeure, where it is not reasonably possible to teach in
       the manner indicated in OCASYS, it is possible to temporarily switch to
       another format of teaching and examination. This is also subject to the
       condition that the adopted learning outcomes continue to be achieved after
       the change of format.




                                                                                        18
Section 5 Binding study advice


    Article 5.1 Preliminary study advice

    1. Halfway through the first semester of the first year of registration, in the first
       year of their degree programme, students will receive a study progress
       overview specifying the student workload realized thus far.

    2. As soon as possible after the end of the first semester, but no later than
       1 March, the students will receive a written preliminary study advice.

    3. This preliminary study advice will include a warning if the student has made
       insufficient progress with their studies, such that the student still has the
       opportunity to improve their performance.

    4. If the study progress is such that the student cannot reasonably be expected
       to satisfy the conditions for receiving a positive study advice as listed in
       Article 5.2.2a, the student will be invited to attend a meeting with the
       academic advisor. The aim of the meeting is to discuss the student’s study
       habits, to reassess the choice of degree programme and if necessary to refer
       them to a different degree programme.


    Article 5.2 Definitive study advice

    1. Students must earn at least 45 ECTS credit points in the first year of the
       degree programme. This threshold is known as the BSA threshold.

    2. A definitive study advice is issued at the end of the first academic year, by
       July 31st at the latest. This can be either:
       a. positive, for students who have earned at least 45 ECTS of the first year
          of the degree programme.
       b. negative, for students who have earned fewer than 45 ECTS of the first
          year of the degree programme. This study advice is binding for students
          in accordance with Article 7.8b.3 of the Act.

       When determining the number of credit points earned, the results of
       individual parts of examinations (tests, partial exams and projects) do not
       count.

    3. In the event that the preliminary study results are insufficient to such an
       extent that the student cannot reasonably be expected to pass the 45 ECTS


                                                                                       19
   threshold by the end of the first year of study, a binding (negative) study
   advice may be issued subsequently to the preliminary study advice as
   referred to in Article 5.1 before the end of the academic year. This may also
   be at the request of the student. The procedure set out in Article 5.5 will
   apply.

4. a. The Faculty Board will take extraordinary personal circumstances as
   referred to in Article 5.4 into account in its decision about which study
   advice to issue in the first year of registration for the degree programme.

  b. Notwithstanding the stipulations in Article 5.2.2, if no assessment can be
  made with regard to a student’s suitability for the degree programme due to
  personal circumstances for the first year, the assessment may be postponed
  until a later date within the first year of the degree programme.

  c. Students may be granted a lower binding (negative) study advice threshold
  in the case of structural circumstances, for instance when a students has
  performance disabilities.


Article 5.3 Exemptions to the definitive study advice

Multiple degree programmes at the University of Groningen
1. Students who are registered for the first year of two or more University of
   Groningen degree programmes in their first year of registration, and by the
   end of the year satisfy the BSA threshold as referred to in Article 5.2.1 for one
   degree programme, will not have to satisfy the BSA threshold for the other
   programme(s) in that year. Once a student has successfully completed the
   first year of one degree programme, the student is exempt from the BSA
   requirements for all other degree programmes.

Propaedeutic certificate previously gained/completion of the
propaedeutic phase
2. Students who have already completed the propaedeutic phase of a degree
   programme at the University of Groningen or another Dutch university, or
   (for degree programmes that do not issue propaedeutic certificates) in the
   opinion of the Board of Examiners have earned 60 ECTS credit points in their
   first year of study, will not fall under the BSA system for the degree
   programme for which they enrol in the first year of the degree programme.

Deregistration before 1 March
3. No definitive study advice will be issued to students who submit a request for
   deregistration before or as of 1 March of the first year of registration in the
   degree programme (see Article 5.7). The procedure set out in Article 5.1 will

                                                                                   20
  apply again to students who reregister in a subsequent academic year. The
  BSA regulations for the academic year in which they reregister for the degree
  programme will then apply.

Deregistration before 1 March + registration as of 1 February
4. Article 5.2 applies in full to any students who deregister from a degree
   programme before 1 March and who register by 1 February of that same
   academic year for a degree programme belonging to the same degree
   programme cluster, indicated in Article 5.7.

Registration as of 1 February
5. An adapted BSA threshold will apply to students who register for a University
   of Groningen Bachelor’s degree programme as of 1 February and have not
   previously been registered as students in the same academic year. These
   students must have earned 20 ECTS from the second semester of the first
   year of the degree programme by the end of the second semester of the first
   Academic Year of registration. In all other cases, the provisions of Article 5.2
   will apply mutatis mutandis.


Article 5.4 Extraordinary circumstances

1. When deciding whether to issue a binding (negative) study advice, the
  Faculty Board will take a student’s extraordinary or personal circumstances
  into account at that student’s request.
  The evaluation of extraordinary circumstances will also take into account the
  student’s study behaviour, the agreements made and/or the study plan drawn
  up in consultation with the academic advisor, when the extraordinary
  circumstances were reported and the study results achieved by the end of the
  first year of study.

2. Students must report extraordinary circumstances to the academic advisor as
  soon as possible in order to ensure optimum support. The Faculty Board, or
  the Faculty BSA Committee on its behalf, will make a decision in response to
  a student’s request for a postponed advice or an adapted BSA threshold.
  Students must also report to the academic advisor as soon as possible, if they
  are unable to complete the study plan drawn up in consultation with the
  academic advisor and based on the original or adapted BSA threshold.

3. If no assessment can be made at the end of the first academic year with
  regard to a student’s suitability for the degree programme due to
  extraordinary circumstances as referred to in Article 5.4.1, the assessment
  may only be postponed at the end of the first academic year.


                                                                                 21
4. Any study advice that is deferred can still be given as long as the first year of
  the degree programme has not yet been completed.
  a. The advice will be positive if the (possibly adapted) threshold has been
     passed.
  b. The advice will be negative (and binding) if the student in question still
     fails to pass the (possibly adapted) BSA threshold in the first year of the
     degree programme.

5. All students whose study advice has been postponed (whether or not
  combined with an adaptation of their BSA threshold) are expected to draw up
  a study plan in consultation with their academic advisor, comprising at least
  the following:
  a. the course units from the first year of the degree programme that have not
     yet been passed, with a related timeline
  b. the course units from the second and third years of the degree programme
     that may be followed in addition to the course units listed under a.

6. Circumstances as referred to in Article 5.4.1 do not automatically lead to a
  successful application for a grant from the Graduation Fund.


Article 5.5 Procedure for issuing a definitive study advice

1. The definitive study advice is issued by the Faculty Board on behalf of the
  Board of the University. The decision will also state the applicable safeguards
  of legal rights.

2. Before a binding (negative) study advice is issued, students will receive notice
  of the intention to issue one, after which they will be given the opportunity to
  put their case to the Faculty Board or its representative.




                                                                                   22
Article 5.6 Consequences of a binding (negative) study advice

1.   Students who have received a binding (negative) study advice may not
     register for the degree programme, or for any other degree programme in the
     cluster of related degree programmes listed in Article 5.7, for a period of two
     consecutive years from 1 September of the next academic year.

2.   Students who have been issued a binding (negative) study advice are not
     permitted to follow course units in this degree programme via a different
     degree programme or educational institution in order to avoid the
     consequences of their binding
     (negative) study advice. No exemptions will be granted for course units
     completed in this way, nor will such completed course units be recognized
     within the framework of the degree programme in any other way.


Article 5.7 BSA-clusters FSE
The related degree programmes within FSE, as referred to in the Articles 2.11,
5.3.3, 5.3.4 and 5.6.1 are:

 Degree            Name of degree       Clustered     Name of degree programme
 programme         programme            with CROHO
 CROHO code                             code
 56286             B Life Science and   56960         B Chemical Engineering
                   Technology           56857         B Chemistry
 56860             B Biology            56157         B Pharmacy
 56157             B Pharmacy           56860         B Biology
 56980             B Mathematics        56965         B Applied Mathematics
                                        50206         B Physics
                                        56962         B Applied Physics
                                        50205         B Astronomy
 56965             B Applied            56980         B Mathematics
                   Mathematics          50206         B Physics
                                        56962         B Applied Physics
                                        50205         B Astronomy
 50206             B Physics            56962         B Applied Physics
                                        50205         B Astronomy
                                        56965         B Applied Mathematics
                                        56980         B Mathematics


                                                                                  23
 56962             B Applied Physics    50206            B Physics
                                        50205            B Astronomy
                                        56965            B Applied Mathematics
                                        56980            B Mathematics
 50205             B Astronomy          56962            B Applied Physics
                                        56965            B Applied Mathematics
                                        50206            B Physics
                                        56980            B Mathematics
 56857             B Chemistry          56960            B Chemical Engineering
                                        56286            B Life Science & Technology
 56960             B Chemical           56857            B Chemistry
                   Engineering          56286            B Life Science & Technology

Degree programmes not appearing in the table above are not clustered with another FSE
programme.



Article 5.8 Consequences of a positive study advice

1. Anyone who has received positive study advice from a degree programme at
   the University of Groningen can be admitted to the second and third years of
   the relevant degree programme.

2. Notwithstanding Article 5.8.1, certain course units may be subject to the
   entry requirement that a previous course unit must have been successfully
   completed. This compulsory order of course units is set out in OCASYS and
   in Article 9.3 of these Teaching and Examination Regulations.




                                                                                        24
Section 6 Admission to the second and third years of the degree
programme


    Article 6.1 Criteria for admission to the second and third years of the
    degree programme

    1. The following students may be admitted to the second and third years of the
       degree programme, subject to approval of the Board of Admissions:
          a. Holders of a propaedeutic certificate, or students who have earned 60
              ECTS credit points in the first year of study in a related degree
              programme;
          b. Students who have been issued a positive study advice for the degree
              programme in question, or one of the degree programmes listed in 5.7
              (BSA-cluster);

    2. The Board of Admissions may grant an exemption for the requirement
       stipulated in Article 6.1.1. to the holder of a diploma gained in the
       Netherlands or elsewhere and considered by the Board of Admissions to be
       at least equivalent to the propaedeutic certificate referred to in Article 6.1.1.

    3. Notwithstanding Article 6.1.1, the requirement that a previous course unit
       must have been successfully completed may apply to some individual course
       units. This compulsory order of course units is set out in the digital
       University course catalogue OCASYS and in Article 9.3 of the Teaching and
       Examination Regulations.


    Article 6.2 Hardship clause for admission to the second and third
    years of the degree programme

    In situations where a change to educational content/educational force majeure
    demonstrably leads to an unfairness of overriding nature, the Board of
    Examiners may deviate from the provisions of Articles 6.1 and 5.8. Such cases
    must involve a unique individual circumstance that is so distinctive that
    admission cannot reasonably be denied.




                                                                                       25
Section 7 The second and third years of the degree programme


    Article 7.1 Composition: second and third years of the degree
    programme

    1.   The second and third years of the degree programme comprises the
         following course units with their related student workloads:
            a. Major course units (90 ECTS)

            b. Major related minor (30 ECTS) or a Personal/University Minor (2x15
                or 30 ECTS).

         A list of course units in the second and third years of the degree programme
         can be found in Appendix IV of these Regulations.

    2. All bachelor degree programmes offer a 30 ECTS minor-slot in the third year
         of the degree programme, with the exception of:
             a) Applied Mathematics;
             b) Applied Physics;
             c) Biomedical Engineering;
             d) Chemical Engineering;
             e) Industrial Engineering & Management;
             f) Pharmacy
          In deviation from art. 7.1.1 these degree programmes comprise 105 or 120
          ECTS major course units each.


    3. Students can fill in their Minor slot with the following components:
       - a research traineeship
       - a placement/internship
       - a study period at another university (national or abroad)
       - a Teacher Training Minor (see Article 8.6)
       - a broadening or deepening Minor, comprising course units from outside
            their own major.

    4. Any deviations from the set of second and third year course units referred to
         in Article 7.1.1.a and the filling in of the minor slot referred to in Article
         7.1.1.b must be presented to the Board of Examiners for approval.

    5. All course units and their modes of instruction are listed in the digital
         University course catalogue OCASYS.


                                                                                          26
6. In situations of force majeure, when it is not reasonably possible to provide
     teaching in the manner stated in OCASYS, alternative modes of instruction
     and assessment may temporarily be used. This is on condition that the
     prescribed learning outcomes are still achieved upon completion of the
     degree programme.


Article 7.2 Substitutions and electives followed elsewhere

1.    Following a substantiated request by a student, the Board of Examiners may
      grant permission to:
     a. substitute a course unit in the examination programme with another
         course unit offered by the University of Groningen or another university
         in the Netherlands or abroad that is in keeping with the degree
         programme, or
     b. replace one or more course units followed at the University of Groningen
         or another university in the Netherlands or abroad as electives in the
         degree programme.

2.   When assessing such a request, the Board of Examiners will in any case
     evaluate the coherence of the set of course units (or parts thereof) and the
     level of the course units followed.


Article 7.3 – Open Degree Programme
1. Students may choose to follow a degree programme’s Open Degree
   Programme, which deviates from the regular specialization(s) of the degree
   programme. An Open Degree Programme must always be approved in
   advance by the Board of Examiners of the degree programme in which the
   student is registered.

2. The additional requirements to Open Degree Programmes are listed in
     Appendix VI.




                                                                                    27
Section 8 Other programmes


    A. Minor

    Article 8.1 Minor

    1. The Minor framework can be filled using any of the options listed in Article
       7.1.2.
    2. Students can choose between:
          a. a University Minor
          b. a Faculty Minor
          c. a Personal Minor.


    Article 8.2 University Minor

    1. A University Minor is a coherent set of broadening course units that students
       can follow either at their own or a different Faculty.

    2. Students who choose to fill their Minor framework with a University Minor
       do not need explicit permission from the Board of Examiners.


    Article 8.3 Faculty Minor

    1. A Faculty Minor is a coherent set of broadening course units that students
       can follow either at their own, or a different faculty.

    2. When choosing a Faculty Minor to fill the minor room of the degree
       programme, the permission of the Board of Examiners of the programme is
       assumed to have been given.


    Article 8.4 Personal Minor

    1. A personal Minor is a coherent set of broadening or deepening course units
       that students can compile themselves and follow either at their own or a
       different Faculty.

    2. The demand of a coherent set does not apply to the Personal Minor when
       this will be filled with a study period at a university abroad.



                                                                                      28
3. Personal Minors must be presented to the Board of Examiners of the
     student’s own degree programme for approval in advance.


Article 8.4 Authority of the Board of Examiners with regard to the
Minors

1.   Students must present their choice of Minor to the Board of Examiners of
     their own degree programme for approval, except if they choose a University
     Minor in accordance with Article 8.2.2.

2.   Minors that students of the degree programme follow at other degree
     programmes, faculties or institutes of higher education, are subject to the
     authority of the Board of Examiners of the degree programme that
     administers the relevant examinations.

3.   Minors in the degree programme followed by students of other degree
     programmes, faculties or institutes of higher education, are subject to the
     authority of the Board of Examiners of the degree programme.

4.   A responsible Board of Examiners will be assigned in the event of inter-
     faculty University Minors.


Article 8.5 University Minors of the Faculty of Science and
Engineering

1.   In the academic year 2024-2025 the Faculty of Science and Engineering
     offers four University Minors:

       I.   Minor Neuroscience (taught in English):
            - Neuroscience (15 ECTS)
            - Behavioural Neuroscience (15 ECTS)
       Competent Programme Committee: BSc Biology
       Competent Board of Examiners: Biology

       II.  Astronomy through Space and Time Minor (taught in English):
           - The Evolving Universe (5 ECTS)
           - Cosmic Origins (5 ECTS)
           - Astrobiology (5 ECTS)
       Competent Programme Committee: BSc Astronomy
       Competent Board of Examiners: Physics


                                                                                   29
       III. Einstein's physics: Space-time and parallel worlds (taught in
            English):
           - The Quantum World (5 ECTS)
           - Relativity Theory (5 ECTS)
           - Living in Einstein’s Universe (5 ECTS)
       Competent Programme Committee: BSc (Applied) Physics
       Competent Board of Examiners: Physics

       IV.     Future Planet Innovation (taught in English):
               - Global Challenges (10 ECTS)
               - Global Integration (5 ECTS)
               - Sustainable Contributions to Society (15 ECTS)
         Competent Programme Committee: MSc Energy and Environmental
         Sciences
         Competent Board of Examiners: Energy and Environmental Sciences

2.   The entry requirements for these Minors are set out in Article 6.1.4 and in
     OCASYS.

3.   The Minors are taught in English, unless indicated otherwise.

4.   These Teaching and Examination Rules are applicable to the university
     minors.


Article 8.6 Teacher Training Minor and supplementary teaching
qualification

1.   A Bachelor’s degree of one of the degree programmes in the table below, in
     combination with the Teacher Training Minor, provides the qualification to
     teach in the school subject (at levels vmbo-tl and lower levels havo-vwo).
     This concerns a limited qualification.

 CROHO              Bachelor’s degree programme             School subject

 56860              Biology                                 Biology
 56981              Artificial Intelligence                 Computing Science
 56978              Computing Science




                                                                                   30
 50206               Physics                                 Physics
 56962               Applied Physics
 50205               Astronomy
 56226               Biomedical Engineering
 56857               Chemistry                               Chemistry
 56960               Chemical Engineering
 56286               Life Science and
                     Technology
 56157               Pharmacy
 56226               Biomedical Engineering
 56980               Mathematics                             Mathematics
 56965               Applied Mathematics
 50205               Astronomy
 50206               Physics
 56962               Applied Physics
 56994               Industrial Engineering and Management


2.   The Teacher Training Minor is Dutch-taught and organized by the
     department of Teacher Education. The Teaching and Examination
     Regulations of the faculty of Behavioural and Social Sciences apply.

3.   The application deadline for the Teacher Training Minor is 1 June 2024.


B. Honours programme

Article 8.7 Bachelor’s Honours programme

1.   The Faculty participates in the Bachelor’s Honours Programme organized by
     the University of Groningen Honours College. The Honours Programme
     does not form part of the regular Bachelor’s curriculum.

2.   Students who have been admitted to one of the Bachelor’s degree
     programmes offered by the Faculty can participate in the Bachelor’s Honours
     Programme if they are selected by the Dean of the University of Groningen
     Honours College. Please consult the Teaching and Examination Regulations
     of the University of Groningen Honours College for the selection procedure.

3.   The Bachelor’s Honours Programme has a total student workload of 30* or
     45 ECTS credit points, divided over the three years of the Bachelor’s
     programme.

     The Bachelor’s Honours Programme, including the deepening Faculty part,
     is subject to the Teaching and Examination Regulations of the University of
     Groningen Honours College.

                                                                               31
*From academic year 2023-2024, the Bachelor’s Honours Programme will
decrease from 45 ECTS to 30 ECTS credit points. The two cohorts that are
already active are still following a programme of 45 ECTS credit points.

4.   a. The Honours Programme is not part of the regular Bachelor’s curriculum.
     The results and marks do not count towards the accolade of a cum laude or
     summa cum laude honours predicate for the Bachelor’s degree programme.
     b. The Diploma Supplement accompanying the Bachelor’s degree certificate
     also lists the results of the Bachelor’s Honours Programme.



C. Pre-Master’s programmes

Article 8.8 Pre-Master’s programmes

1. The Faculty offers Pre-Master’s programmes designed to achieve admission
   to one of the Faculty’s Master’s degree programme.

2. Students who enroll in a Pre-Master’s programme are registered in the
   therefore appointed Bachelor’s degree programme.

3. The Board of Admissions of the desired Master’s degree programme
   determines on a case-by-case basis the content and student workload of the
   pre-master’s programme.

4. The Board of Admissions of the intended Master’s degree programme rules
   on admissions to the associated Pre-Master’s programme.

5. Applicants must meet the language requirements as listed in Article 2.2 of
   the Teaching and Examination Regulations for the FSE Master’s degree
   programmes.

6. Students requesting admission on the basis of a completed degree
   programme obtained at a Dutch university of Applied Science (HBO), or a
   Dutch research university, are exempted from providing their proof of
   proficiency in English.

7. After admission to a Pre-Master’s programme, that programme must be
   completed within one year.

8. In addition to Article 8.8.7, student may only reregister for a Pre-Master’s
   programme if they have earned at least 45 ECTS.


                                                                                  32
        9. The Board of Examiners of the student’s Bachelor’s degree programme has
           the authority to decide in matters concerning course units in the pre-
           master’s programme.

        10. The University of Groningen’s Regulations for Registration and Tuition
            Fees provisions regarding pre-master’s programmes apply.



        D. Global & Intercultural Engagement Distinction (GIED)*

        Article 8.9 Global & Intercultural Engagement Distinction

       1. The Faculty offers the option for students to participate in the Global &
          Intercultural Engagement Distinction. This distinction does not form part of
          the regular curriculum.
       2. Students admitted to one of the Faculty’s degree programmes can participate
          in the Global & Intercultural Engagement Distinction if they timely enroll for
          the workshop Developing Intercultural Competence.
       3. The distinction has a total student workload of 30 ECTS credit points. The
          GIED Rules and Regulations are applicable to the different components of
          the Global & Intercultural Engagement Distinction. The regulations can be
          found on the Student Portal.
       4. The results and marks do not count towards the awarding of an honours
          predicate for the degree programme.
       5. The Diploma Supplement that accompanies the degree certificate will also
          list the results gained in the Global & Intercultural Engagement Distinction.
*GIED will be offered by FSE as a pilot from 2022-2025, with possible extension beyond this period.
Category 1 of the GIED-programme, which is the starting point, will be offered once per semester to
students, starting in April 2023. Both BSc and MSc students from any of FSE programmes can
participate. The first 20 students to register will be offered a spot in the programme after submitting
their motivation letter to the GIED Brightspace environment.




                                                                                                          33
Section 9 Examinations of the degree programme

    Article 9.1 General

    1. Each of the degree programme’s course units is assessed by means of an
       examination.

    2. An examination can comprise a number of partial exams. The results of
       these partial exams together determine the examination result.

    3. The examination assesses students’ academic development and mastery of
       the learning outcomes of the course unit.

    4. Assessment is expressed in whole and half numbers greater than or equal to
       1 or less than or equal to 10, or by the qualifications ‘Pass’ (P) or ‘Fail’ (F). A
       course unit is passed when a mark of at least 6 is achieved or when the
       qualification ‘Pass’ (P) is awarded. The mark 5.5 is not awarded.


    Article 9.2 Participation in examinations

    A student who registers for a course unit in the degree programme in
    accordance with Article 3.7 of the OER is automatically registered for the
    examination for that course unit.


    Article 9.3 Compulsory order of examinations

    The examinations for some course units may not be taken before the exams of
    certain other course units have been passed. Appendix III (first year of the
    degree programme) and Appendix IV (second and third years of the degree
    programme) to these Regulations provide an overview of course units to which
    this stipulation applies.


    Article 9.4 Examination frequency and periods

    1. There will be an opportunity to sit the examinations for the course units
       listed in Articles 4.1 and 7.1 at least twice per academic year.

    2. The periods in which examinations can be sat are listed via a link in OCASYS
       to the schedules. Partial exams can also be taken outside the period
       indicated.


                                                                                         34
3. Practicals organised by the degree programme, as listed in Appendices III
   and IV, will be offered at least once a year. Students will be offered the
   opportunity to participate in the practicals once a year.

4. Contrary to the provisions of Article 9.4.1, for course units which are not
   taught in a specific academic year, standard examination opportunities will
   be offered in that same year.

5. Contrary to the provisions of Article 9.4.1, for course units which are taught
   for the last time in a specific academic year, standard examination
   opportunities will be offered in the following year.

6. Students are not allowed to take part in an examination of a course unit they
   have already passed. Students can request the Board of Examiners for an
   exception to this rule if they can specify a higher grade is required for the
   application procedure of a specific MSc-programme or a specific job
   application. The Board of Examiners can set further conditions in its Rules
   and Regulations.

7. If a student has fulfilled his or her effort obligation to complete all the
   compulsory parts of a course unit but has still not passed, then the examiner
   may give him or her the opportunity to take a supplementary or replacement
   test.


Article 9.5 – Assessment of placement or research assignment

A placement or research assignment is assessed by an internal, first, examiner
who is appointed by the Board of Examiners. External, on-site, supervisors may
be appointed as second examiner by the Board of Examiners. The criteria for
appointing examiners are set out in the Rules and Regulations of the Boards of
Examiners.


Article 9.6 – Thesis/Bachelor project

1. In general, each thesis is associated with a single University of Groningen
   degree programme. Full or partial exemptions for a degree programme’s
   thesis may be granted by the Board of Examiners on the basis of a thesis
   written for another degree programme.

2. Each thesis is assessed by at least two examiners.


                                                                                   35
3. The thesis is stored by the Faculty Board for a period of seven years.

4. Students will be given the opportunity to write a final-year thesis at least
   twice per academic year.

5. The period(s) during which students can write theses will be published in
   OCASYS.

6. If by the end of the period referred to in Article 9.6.5 the examiner(s) is/are
   of the opinion that the thesis cannot be awarded a pass mark, the student
   will be given one opportunity to remedy the work in order to be awarded a
   pass mark within a time frame defined by the degree programme.

7. Students must satisfy the following requirements in order to qualify for
   supervision and assessment of the final-year thesis for the degree
   programme:

   -   they must have completed all course units from the first year of their
       degree programme;
   -   they must have earned at least 60 ECTS credit points from the second
       and third years of the degree programme;
   -   their Bachelor’s specialization must have been approved by the Board of
       Examiners.

8. The Board of Examiners is the only body that can deviate from the
   provisions of this Article at the written request of a student.


Article 9.7 Mode of assessment

1. The examinations are conducted in the manner stated in OCASYS.

2. In situations of force majeure, when it is not reasonably possible to conduct
   examinations in the manner stated in OCASYS, alternative modes of
   instruction and assessment may temporarily be used. This is on condition
   that the prescribed learning outcomes are still achieved upon completion of
   the degree programme.

3. At the student’s request, the Board of Examiners may allow an examination
   to be taken in a form different from that stated in Article 9.7.1.




                                                                                  36
4. For each written examination, representative questions will be available to
     practice.


Article 9.8 – Request for an additional examination opportunity

1.   Students may submit a request for an additional examination opportunity to
     the Board of Examiners.

2. Such a request may be granted if the student in question failed the relevant
     exam due to extraordinary circumstances and if not granting the request for
     an additional examination opportunity would result in unacceptable study
     delay.

3. The following criteria apply to granting a request for an additional
     examination opportunity for the last course unit in the degree programme:
     -  the course unit in question must be the last course unit that must be
        passed;
     - not granting the request for an additional examination opportunity
        would result in study delay of at least one semester;
     - the examinee must have participated in the last two regular exam
        opportunities for the course unit in question.


Article 9.9 Competent Board of Examiners regarding electives
offered by other degree programmes

1.   A request to take an elective at another degree programme must be
     approved by the Board of Examiners of the student’s own degree
     programme.

2.   The examination for an elective from another degree programme, and
     requests for alternative examination regulations, are subject to the authority
     of the Board of Examiners of that other degree programme. Article 10.2
     applies.


Article 9.10 Examinations and performance disabilities

1.   Students with a performance disability will be given the opportunity to take
     examinations in a form that will compensate as far as possible for their
     individual disability. If necessary, the Board of Examiners will seek expert



                                                                                 37
     advice from a student counsellor of the Student Service Centre (SSC) before
     making a decision.

2.   With regard to examinations for electives taken at other degree programmes
     by students with a performance disability, the Board of Examiners of the
     degree programme that sets the examination will comply with the provisions
     permitted by the Board of Examiners of the degree programme for which the
     student is registered.


Article 9.11 Oral examinations

1. Unless the Board of Examiners decides otherwise, an oral examination may
     only be taken by one student at a time. A second examiner may attend the
     oral examination at the request of the student or the examiner.

2. An oral examination is attended by an independent observer with sufficient
     knowledge of the content of the examined topic(s).

3. Oral examinations are public, unless the Board of Examiners or the relevant
     examiner stipulates otherwise, or the student objects to the public nature of
     the examination due to extraordinary circumstances. The examiner can
     further specify this in OCASYS.


Article 9.12 Marking of examinations and publication of marks

1. After an oral examination, the examiner will assess the examination
     immediately and submit the result to the Faculty’s administration
     department (SSE). The examiner provides the student with a statement on
     request.

2. The examiner will mark a written examination within 10 working days of the
     day on which it was taken, and will provide the Faculty’s administration
     department (SSE) with the necessary details for registration of the result in
     Progress. In the event of unforeseen circumstances, as a result of which the
     period of ten working days is not reasonably feasible, this period can be
     extended by a maximum of five working days. The programme
     director/programme management must grant permission for this.
     Extending the period is not possible in Block 2b, nor for course units in the
     first year of the degree programme.

3. Written examinations for first-year course units specified by the Educational
     Management Team will be assessed within 5 working days of the day on

                                                                                 38
     which they were taken. The examiner will provide the Faculty’s
     administration department (SSE) the necessary details of the result for
     registration and determination whether a binding (negative) study advice is
     in order.

4. The examiner will assess practicals within 10 working days of the day on
     which the course unit must be completed, with the exception of practicals for
     which the Board of Examiners has set an alternative assessing period of no
     more than one month. The examiner will provide the Faculty’s
     administration department (SSE) with the necessary details for registration
     of the result.

5. If an examination is taken in a form other than oral, written or via a
     practical, the Board of Examiners will determine in advance how and when
     students will receive written confirmation of the result.

6. Students can lodge an appeal against the results of an examination with the
     Central Portal for the Legal Protection of Student Rights (CLRS) within 6
     weeks of the date on which the result was announced.


Article 9.13 Validity of course units

1.   Examinations that have been passed remain valid indefinitely.

     a. Contrary to the provision mentioned in Article 9.13.1, the Board of
     Examiners may decide that the validity of a passed examination is limited.
     The Board of Examiners can only decide a passed examination is no longer
     valid if the student’s knowledge, understanding or skills are demonstrably
     outdated.

     b. In the event of extraordinary personal circumstances, the validity term
     will be extended for the period during which the student in question is
     receiving support from the Graduation Fund.

2.   Partial examinations and assignments passed within a course unit that has
     not been successfully completed will lapse at the end of the academic year in
     which they were passed, unless otherwise indicated in Ocasys.




                                                                                  39
Article 9.14 Right of inspection

1. On request, students have the right to inspect their marked work during a
   period of four weeks after the results of a written examination have been
   announced. If the student makes use of this opportunity, they will be
   provided (upon request) with a copy of the work.

2. Within the time frame stipulated in Article 9.14.1, any participant in the
   examination may request to be allowed to peruse the examination paper and
   the assessment criteria.

3. The Board of Examiners can determine that this inspection or perusal will
   take place at a certain place and time. This inspection and perusal may be
   organized collectively. Students who can show that they were prevented by
   force majeure from attending at the indicated places and time will be offered
   another opportunity, if possible within the period stated in Article 9.14.1.


Article 9.15 Exemptions

1. At a student’s request, the Board of Examiners, having discussed the matter
   with the examiner in question, may grant exemption from an examination
   (or part thereof) on the basis of results obtained earlier (possibly elsewhere),
   if the student:
   a. has completed part of a university or higher vocational degree
        programme, in the Netherlands or abroad, that is equivalent in content
        and level, or
   b. can demonstrate by work experience that they have sufficient knowledge
        and skills with respect to the course unit in question.

2. The validity period of exemptions granted for course units or parts thereof is
   identical to that of examination results.

3. The Board of Examiners may also grant exemption from participation in
   (parts of) practical exercises. Such exemptions can be granted, for example,
   based on recognized conscientious objections. In such cases, the Board of
   Examiners will determine the way the practical exercise has to be performed.

4. Article 10.2 applies to granting exemptions.




                                                                                 40
 Article 9.16 Board of Examiners and examiners

 1.   The Board of Examiners is the independent body that determines whether
      individual students have the knowledge, understanding and skills required
      to be awarded a degree.

 2.   The Faculty Board appoints the members of the Board of Examiners on the
      basis of their expertise in the field of the degree programme (or cluster of
      degree programmes) in question.

 3.   The Board of Examiners must comprise at least:
         a. one member who is a lecturer affiliated with the degree programme
            (or to one of the degree programmes belong to the cluster of degree
            programmes); and
         b. one member from outside the degree programme (or one of the
            degree programmes that belong to the cluster of degree programmes).

 4.   Members of the Faculty Board or other people who have financial
      responsibilities within the institution may not be appointed as members of
      the Board of Examiners.

 5.   The Board of Examiners appoints examiners to set examinations and
      determine the results.

 6.   The Board of Examiners must set out rules in the Rules and Regulations of
      the Board of Examiners for assessing and determining the results of
      examinations and final assessments.


Article 9.17 Cheating and plagiarism

1.    Cheating is an act or omission by a student that partly or wholly hinders the
      forming of a correct assessment of their – or another’s - knowledge,
      understanding and skills.

2.    Cheating also includes committing plagiarism, copying someone else’s or
      one’s own knowledge, insights and skills without correctly acknowledging the
      source.

3.    The assessment of theses and written assignments requires a plagiarism
      check to be performed, by means of a plagiarism scanner assessed by the
      University. Students are individually responsible for maintaining academic
      integrity.


                                                                                      41
4.    If a student cheats, the Board of Examiners may exclude that student from
      participation in one or more examinations or final assessment for a
      maximum of one year.

5.    In the event of serious cheating, the Board of Examiners can advise the Board
      of the University to permanently terminate a student’s registration in the
      degree programme.

6.    In any case, the following can be considered to be serious cheating:
       a impersonating someone else during the exam
       b being represented by someone else during the exam
       c obtaining the assignments and/or model answers for the relevant
          examination before the time when the examination takes place
       d fabricating and/or falsifying survey and/or interview answers and/or
          research data

7.    The Board of Examiners sets out its course of action in the event of cheating
      in its Rules and Regulations.


 Article 9.18 Invalid examination

 In the event of irregularities with regard to an examination that are so serious
 that an accurate assessment of the examinee’s knowledge, understanding and
 skills cannot be made, the Board of examiners may declare the examination
 invalid for either an individual examinee or a group of examinees.


 Article 9.19 Termination of enrolment (Iudicium Abeundi)

 1.   In extraordinary cases of reprehensible behaviour or statements made by a
      student, the Board of the University, on the recommendation of the Board of
      Examiners or the Faculty Board, terminate that student’s registration.

 2.   The Board of the University will not make a decision as referred to in the
      first paragraph until after the student in question has been given an
      opportunity to put their case forward, any interests of the student and of the
      institution have been carefully assessed and it has been proven reasonable to
      assume that the student’s behaviour and/or statements prove that they are
      unsuitable for one or more of the professions for which they are being
      trained in their degree programme, or for the practical preparation for the
      profession. In such cases the Faculty Board, the Board of Examiners and the
      Board of the University will follow the Protocol Iudicium Abeundi (protocol

                                                                                      42
     for termination of registration) as adopted by the Dutch Federation of
     University Medical Centres on 1 November 2010.

3.   The provisions in the University of Groningen Regulations for registration
     and Tuition fees apply.




                                                                                  43
Section 10 Final assessment of the degree programme


    Article 10.1 Final assessment

    1. The degree programme is concluded with a final assessment.

    2. On the condition that the student’s study programme has been approved, the
       Board of Examiners will determine the result of the final assessment as soon
       as the student has passed all the required examinations. The Board of
       Examiners may define terms to this end. The result of the final assessment
       indicates that the students has achieved the necessary academic
       development. The Board of Examiners will issue a degree certificate to this
       effect.

    3. If a student exceeds the relevant deadlines for approval of the study
       programme referred to under 2, this may cause the Board of Examiners to
       schedule the examination for a later date. This date may then be in the
       academic year following the year in which the last examination was passed.

    4. Before the final assessment can be determined, the Board of Examiners may
       itself decide to test the student’s knowledge of one or more course units or
       components of the degree programme, if and in as much as the marks for
       these course units provide a reason for doing so.

    5. By determining the result of the final assessment, the Board of Examiners
       also commits itself to a speedy processing of the degree certificate ceremony.

    6. If a student wishes to postpone their date of graduation due to additional
       examinations that they still need to sit, the student must submit this request
       to the Board of Examiners within two weeks after the date of the final
       assessment has been set.

    7. The graduation date is the date on which the final assessment is passed, as
       determined by the Board of Examiners in accordance with the provisions of
       Article 10.1.2, and not the date on which the degree certificate is presented to
       the student.




                                                                                      44
Article 10.2 Conditions for awarding a University of Groningen
degree

1. Students can only be awarded a Bachelor’s degree certificate for the degree
     programme if at least half of the programme was followed at the Faculty of
     Science and Engineering during the student’s period of registration as a
     Bachelor’s student at the University of Groningen.

2. Students who wish to obtain a second Bachelor’s degree within the Faculty of
     Science and Engineering can use a maximum of 120 ECTS from their first
     Bachelor programme in the second study programme they submit at the
     Board of Examiners for approval. Of these 120 ECTS a maximum of 60 ECTS
     can be obtained in the second and third years of the degree programme.
     Board of Examiners can specify these conditions for obtaining a second
     Bachelor’s degree in their Rules and Regulations.

3. For Double Degree Bachelor’s degree programmes offered together with an
     institution abroad, at least one quarter of the programme must have been
     followed at the University of Groningen during the student’s period of
     registration as a Bachelor’s student at the University of Groningen.


Article 10.3 Degree certificate

1.   The student shall receive a certificate issued by the Board of Examiners as
     proof that they have passed the final examination. Even if a student
     successfully completes more than one specialization within the degree
     programme, they will only receive one degree certificate. Article 10.2 applies.

2.   The Board of Examiners will issue an International Diploma Supplement
     with each degree certificate.

3.   The Major and Minor followed will be stated in the Diploma Supplement
     that accompanies the Bachelor’s degree certificate.

4.   If applicable, the results of the Bachelor’s Honours Programme are listed in
     the Diploma Supplement accompanying the Bachelor’s degree certificate.


Article 10.4 Degree

1. A student who has satisfied all the requirements of the final assessment shall
     be awarded the degree of ‘Bachelor of Science’.


                                                                                  45
2. Details of the degree awarded are indicated on the degree certificate.


Article 10.5 Cum laude/summa cum laude honours predicate

1. The Board of Examiners assesses whether the Bachelor’s degree should be
   awarded an honours predicate.

2. To the Bachelor’s degree programme certificate the following conditions
   apply. For the predicate ‘Cum Laude’:
    a) The mark for the Bachelor’s project must be at least 8.0, and
    b) The weighted average (not rounded off) for all course units within the
       examination programme approved by the Board of Examiners, excluding
       the Bachelor’s project, must be at least 8.0.

    For the predicate ‘Summa Cum Laude’:
    a) The mark for the Bachelor’s project must be at least 9.0, and
    b) The weighted average (not rounded off) for all course units within the
       examination programme approved by the Board of Examiners, excluding
       the Bachelor’s project, must be at least 9.0.

3. No honours predicate is awarded if the value of the exemptions in ECTS
   credit points is greater than or equal to half of the total number of ECTS for
   the degree programme. This stipulation does not apply to Double Degree
   programmes.

4. Honours predicates may only be awarded if the examinations for the course
   units were taken only once.

5. An honours predicate will only be awarded if no course unit has been
   awarded a mark of less than 7.0.

6. No honours predicates will be awarded if a decision by the Board of
   Examiners has been taken to the effect that a student is no longer eligible for
   an honours predicate because cheating/plagiarism has been detected.

7. In extraordinary cases, the Board of Examiners may depart from the
   provisions set out in Articles 10.5.2 to 10.5.6.




                                                                                46
Article 10.6 Assessment Plan

The Assessment Plan is approved by the Faculty Board. This Assessment Plan is
an appendix to the TER and covers the following topics:
1. the learning outcomes of the degree programme;
2. the course units of the degree programme with their student workload in
   ECTS, and the learning outcomes of each course unit;
3. the relationship between course units and learning outcomes;
4. the assessment mode to be used and the test moments for each course unit;
5. the test design and assessment procedures and assessment criteria used
6. those responsible for implementing the various components of the
   assessment policy;
7. the periodic evaluation method.




                                                                           47
Section 11 Study progress supervision


    Article 11.1 Study progress administration

    1.   The Faculty Board registers individual study results achieved by the
         students.

    2.   The Faculty’s administration department (SSE) upon a student’s request will
         provide authenticated overviews of their results.


    Article 11.2 Study progress supervision

    The Faculty Board will organize the introduction and the tutoring for students
    registered for the degree programme, partly for the purpose of their progress
    during the course of study and partly to gain an impression of potential study
    options within and outside the degree programme.




                                                                                     48
Section 12 Transitional and final provisions


    Article 12.1 Transitional provisions

    The transitional provisions are listed in Appendix VII.


    Article 12.2 Amendments

    1. Any amendments to these Regulations will, following a recommendation by
       and/or upon the approval of the Programme Committee and in consultation
       with – and where necessary upon the approval of - the Faculty Council, be
       confirmed by the Faculty Board in a separate decree.

    2. Any amendments to these Regulations will not apply to the current academic
       year, unless it may reasonably be assumed that the amendment in question
       will not harm the interests of students.

    3. In addition, an amendment may not influence any other decision concerning
       a student taken by the Board of Examiners under these Regulations to the
       detriment of that student.


    Article 12.3 Publication

    1. The Faculty Board will duly publish these Regulations, any rules and
       guidelines formulated by the Board of Examiners, and any amendments to
       these documents.

    2. The documents referred to in Article 12.3.1 are digitally accessible on the
       Faculty’s website via the Student Portal.


    Article 12.4 Evaluation

    The Faculty Board will ensure that the TER is regularly evaluated, assessing at
    least – for the purpose of monitoring and if necessary adapting the student
    workload – the amount of time students need to complete their duties as set out
    therein.




                                                                                     49
Article 12.5 Legal validity

The Dutch text of the model Teaching and Examination Regulations of the
Department of Legal Affairs shall be binding in the event of differences of
opinion on the interpretation of the Dutch or English version of these Teaching
and Examinations Regulations.


Article 12.6 Appeal procedure

Appeals against decisions made by an examiner or a Board of Examiners may be
filed with the Board of Appeal for Examinations through the Central Portal for
the Legal Protection of Student Rights: www.rug.nl/clrs.


Article 12.7 Date of commencement

These Regulations shall take effect on 1 September 2024.




                                                                              50
